Hey what's up guys.
Well come to one more lesson in today's lesson.
You're going to learn what is the famous word press loop and how it works before we really get into
the explanation of what the loop is.
I'm going to show you what I prepared to streamline this lesson.
So here is the index that BHB file I have already added the classes related to bootstrap.
You can see here that I just added the containers rows and columns related to classes for each section
of the file.
You have already learned how to do that in the previous lessons.
Thus I really don't think there's any more secret for you here.
Here in the food pitch file I've created a device called copyright.
Also inside the bootstrap structure.
So there's nothing really new here only age email tags and CSSA classes.
And we have created a new menu to this for us left as an exercise in our last lesson remember and see
if your solution looks like mine.
If it's not you can't pass this video and correct it or you can copy this line of code from the files
available for download as you know they are all available in the first section of discourse.
In my case the menus like is footer underscore menu but yours may have a different name.
No problem as long as this look is the same as defined in the functions file.
So just like here must be the same as the string we have here.
I also added this new menu in the CSSA file so it will display in line as well.
Another thing we did was create in the administration three new posts.
These are only simple posts with some dummy content.
Each of them are within some categories which have also created and they have a couple of tags to help
us show the post content which is the purpose of today's lesson.
You should then create your own posts.
Ok I believe you know how to do that.
Just go over to the boss menu and create your post there.
That said let's move on to today's lesson.
Today we're going to learn how to make our theme more dynamic.
It will be then the first time something will really happen when they click on any link and change the
content of boards and pages.
So what is the word.
BRESLOW if you look at the Wordpress codecs you'll find the explanation there.
So here WordPress theme says that the loop is a peach code used by WordPress to display posts and here's
a quick question.
What do we mean by posts posts and not just regular posts but static pages are considered to be post
to for example the about us page.
The contact page etc..
Using the loop WordPress processes each post to be displayed on the current page and FIRMAT set according
to how it matches specified criteria within the loop tags within the loop.
We can tell WordPress to show the title of each post the content of the entire post.
Or is Nippert of this content.
The docs used the categories of this posts.
All this is done with a combination of ational text and ph comments any male or BHB code in the loop
will be processed on each post.
Then it should serve as a template to display your posts.
Well to illustrate what this loop will be in practice that's open the Wordpress themes repository page
here on the page.
I want to find a theme called fluey the
and here it is.
I'll go ahead and click on More info and then on preview.
At the top of the theme.
There are several examples of what a loop looks like but let's scroll down to the bottom of the page
this region shown here which shows the category the post-Idol the author the publication date.
An excerpt from The Post and the ellipsis and a link that leads to the full post.
As you can see is repeated in several other parts of the site.
All of this can be created inside the Word Press.
Let's go back to subline them.
We'll be creating our loop right here where we have the word news.
Let's make some space here.
And let's start creating.
Look inside pitch tags.
Let's start by saying the following is WordPress.
Have any posts if Heff posts.
Run for president something while there are posts do something else.
So while half posts and that something else is simply bringing in the post for us the post so while
has Bouffes the post let's just type in some comments to make it easier to understand what is going
on.
So if you have any post published why WordPress can't find those posts it will show them on screen.
Regardless of how many posts are found in the database later on you'll see that we can't even control
the amount of posts returned by the database and those posts will be called here in this exact space
here.
But according to some formit and that for we are going to define it soon.
But in case no post was found we have to predict this too.
Let's reopen the page bit here below.
And why comment which started up here.
And just below.
We're going to use the else command to determine what will happen if no posts are found.
So let's open a paragraph below.
Or something like that.
And finally let's close out the east block that we started here and is.
So let's recap.
I want this to be very clear to you.
OK.
We started the dynamic Harington WordPress to check for posts in the database.
For now let's not worry about the kind of post that will be returned if there are posts then they start
our do in fact loop itself goes from this why is statement here and why.
Why all posts are found in the database.
Will tell Word Press to show each post found one at a time.
So let's say that two posts are found.
The data from the first post will be loaded and shown on the screen according to a specific form with
which we have not yet defined but you Hughson the code will reach the end while person and check that
there is still one post left to be loaded.
It will then go back up here.
Starting a new loop and all the data from the second post when there are no more posts to look comes
to its And and the code continues on.
In our case the code will continue running and which this person here where later on will have a map
and the story goes on.
I know it's so wonderful a here I must agree but if there are no balls to play the loop doesn't even
start running.
The code jumps directly to the else block and shows this small message here.
OK but the way it is at the moment our code still doesn't show any content on the screen.
We still need to define how we want the parts to be presented so we need to add a new channel markup
here and then display the content for each M.Tech dynamically using some WordPress functions WordPress
has some buten functions to print the post-Idol the author tags the publication date and several other
information from books were pressed simply call them template tags.
There are a large number of them but for this lesson we are going to use only the main ones.
I started by creating an email article tag within this article.
You're going to create a page to tag 681 tags you already be used in the headers of each section just
below a paragraph.
Let's type in here.
Posted in by and three more paragraphs below this
in the first one I want to type in categories and later on you'll see what the last two paragraphs are
for.
OK first content we want here is the post-Idol to do this dynamically.
We need to use the Wordpress function called the title.
So let's type in here the underscore title within the page besides for the dates you're going to use
an other function called Get to date.
But in order for it to work you have to act out.
Here's a tip for you guys usually WordPress functions that start with the word get need to be Echo out
there only use to retrieve a certain value but don't display that value on the screen to show it when
need you use the echo command.
Now we want to show a link that can be used to take us to our first page for that particular post.
And for this let's use the owl for post link function for categories.
We use a template tag called the category.
One other thing I forgot to say is that some of these functions accept parameters that we can pass inside
the prince.
This function call the categories one of them the first parameter that this function accepts is a separator
since posts in one breast can belong to more than one category.
If you want to separate the names of all categories by space you can type out the space inside single
quotation marks.
And this corresponds to the first parameter of the function which is separator.
Now in the next paragraph let's make a list of Dag's the function this time is stag's.
It also accepts parameters.
The first one is any text that will be shown before the list of tags as type in here tags.
And the second is the separator.
Let's use a comma as separator.
OK.
And finally the last paragraph will be used to show the post content itself which is everything we insert
into the bay post editing area.
For this let's call a function name the content.
Now the FIRMAT is complete and we can see if our first loop will actually work.
Keep your fingers crossed.
And we want to refresh the front end.
And here it is our loop is working.
You realize that as I told you the loop was executed three times bringing Tripos from the database.
Each of them with the format that we defined as go ahead and inspect one of them
and look we have the article and within that the content of each post with Chido publication date also
link content here in the content.
You'll see that we have a list of categories when you have more than one.
There was a space separating each item.
Same thing for the comma separated list of tags.
Now there is one more test.
What happens when there is no pause to be shown.
Let's do this let's go back to the dashboard sent all to trash
and let's refresh our page again.
And perfect.
Now as no published false has been found we have this message popping up well let's restore our posts
as we will need them for the next lessons.
Well but we still have two big problems to solve here.
The first one you notice when we click the links to each page of the site for example is actually here
on about is notice that we also have a loop here and the loop is printing out the post-Idol which in
this case is the best idol since pages are also considered types of posts by WordPress.
We have here the word categories where we don't have any category because pages don't have categories.
Publication Date Author and the page contain the same thing happens if you click on blog or on contact.
But that's not what you want.
We want the content of this inner pages to be different.
Let's go to the second problem the home page shows us a list of posts.
This listing should only appear on the blog page.
However the blog page currently only shows the content we've included on a page called Blog.
That is the role of this two pages.
It's totally inverted.
To solve this we go over to our dashboard settings menu reading now here where it says front page displays.
Let's say that the home page will show a static page this page is going to be our home page and the
Post page is going to be the blog page.
Go ahead and save this and now when we visit the home page we see the contents of that WordPress static
page called home and then click on blog.
We have a listing of all the posts Great saw for this lesson.
I hope you enjoyed it.
And I also hope you feel like you learned something new today.
But as ever it doesn't end here in the next lesson.
We'll have more of them.
Coding.